---
layout:     post
title:      D&D Halifax 1st Session!
date:       2016-01-21
categories: hidden dndhali
---

In which four heroes battle some goblins, track them down to their cave, and begin a daring rescue of a captured human.

Four heroes were hired by Gundar Rockseeker to escort a wagon of goods to a small settlement called Phandalin.  Finan Thorngage, a lightfoot halfling rogue who stabs first and asks questions later.  Tannis Galanadel, a high-elf wizard, who considers all his options before action, unless there's a goblin in need of a magic missile.  Douglas J. Gould (Douggie), a dwarf cleric, prefers to hang back and help his friends, but often gets sent in first cause of his hearty constitution.  Brax, a human who prefers to drink than drive, but is obligated to do the latter with the cart.

Gundar and his bodyguard Sildar Hallwinter went ahead to the town to "take care of some business".  The heroes set forth with a drunken axe wielding man named Brax who is driving the coach.

A few days on the road, the caravan turned East onto the Triboar Trail, a rough road that leads to Phandalin.  A few hours in, the heroes discovered two dead horses on the trail and they are riddled with goblin arrows.

Suddenly, Goblins attack the party from both sides of the trail.  Tannis kills one of them promptly with a magic missile, while the goblin's attacks have no effect on Douggie's sturdy armour.  Finan has a bit more bad luck and is wounded before Brax saves his skin and they dispatch 3 of the 4 the goblins.  The fourth tries to run down a small trail in the trees, and the party manages to kill it at distance before it gets to far.

They interrogate it, learning that a dwarf and a human were captured by the Goblins, and one of them is in a cave down the trail which is run by Klarg and Yeemik.  They head to the cave, easily dodging the traps the goblins have left. 

At the cave, a Human fighter named Richard K. Robertson catches up with the party.  It seems he was hired by Sildar too, but missed the meetup time.  They all head in, killing two goblins.  Richard pokes his head in the cave and feels it's a good idea to attack the wolves.  They attack them from a distance managing to kill them before they ripped their chains out of the ground.  

Further inside, they find Yeemik's cave and they listen at the entrance.  While arguing loudly what to do next, they are overheard by Yeemik who asks "Who's there?" to which Tannis replies with a rather deceptive fart, and Yeemik believes it's just one of the other goblins.

They capture another goblin to interrogate it, learning nothing new from it, but they give away their position.  After a brief scuffle, Yeemik appears holding a human hostage.  They bargain with him and agree to kill the bugbear Klarg in exchange for the human.

On their way to Klarg, Finan tries to scout ahead and is seen by a goblin on the bridge who sounds an alarm.  The group tries another route, and is caught in a flood from inside the cave.  Everyone hangs on except for the dwarf, who is saved by Richard the human with his rope.  They attempt to get to Klarg's lair through the garbage shute, but they are spotted and attacked and they double back again.

Two goblins appear in the cave mouth and Finan and Douggie dispatch them with ease.
